The Gospel of St. Luke in the Authorized Version, commonly called the King James Version, chapters
XVII.
Then said he unto the disciples,
It is impossible, but that offenses will come, But woe unto him through whom they come.
It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he cast into the sea,
Than that he should offend one of these little ones.
Take heed to yourselves. If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him, and if he repent,
forgive him. And if he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day,
turn again to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him.
And the apostle said unto the Lord, Increase our faith.
And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this sycamine
Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea, and it should obey you.
But which of you, having a servant plowing or feeding cattle, will say unto him by and by,
When he has come from the field, Go and sit down to meet?
And will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself,
And serve me till I have eaten and drunken, and afterward thou shalt eat and drink?
Dost he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him?
I tro not. So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you,
Say, We are unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do.
And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and
Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers,
which stood afar off. And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.
And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go, show yourselves unto the priests.
And it came to pass that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he
was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God, and fell down on his face at his
feet, giving him thanks. And he was a Samaritan. And Jesus, answering, said, Were there not ten
cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that return to give glory to God save this
stranger. And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole.
And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them
and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation. Neither shall they say, Lo, here,
or lo, there. For behold, the kingdom of God is within you. And he said unto the disciples,
The days will come when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man,
and ye shall not see it. And they shall say to you, See here, or see there. Go not after them,
nor follow them. For as the lightning that lighteneth out of the one part under heaven,
shineth unto the other part under heaven, so shall also the Son of man be in his day.
But first must he suffer many things, and be rejected of this generation.
And as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man.
They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage, until the day that
Noah entered unto the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all. Likewise also as it was
in the days of Lot. They did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded.
But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven,
and destroyed them all. Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed.
In that day he which shall be upon the housetop, and his stuff in the house,
let him not come down to take it away. And he that is in the field, let him likewise not return back.
Remember Lot's wife. Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it,
and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it. I tell you, in that night
there shall be two men in one bed, the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left.
Two women shall be grinding together, the one shall be taken, and the other left. Two men shall
be in the field, the one shall be taken, and the other left. And they answered and said unto him,
Where, Lord? And he said unto them, Whosoever the body is, thither will the eagles be gathered
together. Chapter 18 And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray
and not to faint, saying, There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man.
And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary.
And he would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God nor
regard men, yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming
she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith, And shall not God avenge
his own elect, which cried day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? I tell you,
that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith
on the earth? And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they
were righteous and despised others. Two men went up into the temple to pray,
the one a Pharisee and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself,
God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are extortioners, unjust, adulterers,
or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.
And the publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven,
but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me a sinner.
I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone
that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.
And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch them. But when his disciples saw it,
they rebuked them. But Jesus called them unto him and said, Suffer little children to come unto me,
and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto thee,
whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein.
And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? None is good save one, that is God.
Thou knowest the commandments, do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal,
do not bear false witness, honor thy father and thy mother. And he said, All these I have kept
from my youth up. Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one
thing. Sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in
heaven. And come, follow me. And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful, for he was very rich.
And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches
enter into the kingdom of God. For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye,
than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. And they that heard it said, Who then can be
saved? And he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God.
Then Peter said, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee. And he said unto them, Verily I say unto
you, There is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children,
for the kingdom of God's sake, who shall not receive manifold more in this present time,
and in the world to come, life everlasting. Then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them,
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning
the Son of Man shall be accomplished. For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles,
and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spit it upon. And they shall scourge him,
and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again.
And they understood none of these things, and this saying was hid from them, neither knew they the
things which were spoken. And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain
blind man sat by the wayside begging. And hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant.
And they told him that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by. And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou Son of David,
have mercy on me. And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace.
But he cried so much the more, thou Son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stood,
and commanded him to be brought unto him. And when he was come near, he asked him, saying,
What wilt thou that I shall do unto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight,
and Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight, thy faith hath saved thee.
And immediately he received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God,
and all the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God.
End of chapter 18 of the Gospel According to Saint Luke
in the King James Version, also known as the Authorized Version.
Reading by Father Zeile of Detroit, December 2008.